# Traffic flow diversion control system on scheduling algorithm
## Authors
Xiang Cai, Yufeng Xiao, Zhe Zhang, Junyi Li, Hao Deng, Huawei Du

## Abstract
The phenomenon of traffic congestion is now widespread in the traffic of major and medium-sized cities. This study creates a traffic flow diversion system with a backend command, control system management, and a data monitoring visualization large screen surveillance side to enhance operation management, incident response effectiveness, and traffic system. The system leverages relevant expertise in machine learning and visual analytics for target tracking, violation detection, and other tasks. Jetson NX receives deep learning models from Deepstream [2] to enable secure two-way communication between the edge and the cloud. The system also uses signal lights to implement intelligent traffic guidance. In this study, we illustrate the simulation using Pygame, and the simulation outcomes show the efficacy of scheduling.

## SECTION I. Introduction
With the increased urbanization trend in recent years, the current state of traffic in many Chinese cities is no longer encouraging. The Ministry of Public Security estimates that China had 378 million motor cars as of March 2021. More than one million cars are represented in 72 cities, an increase of 5 from last year. There are more than 3 million cars in 16 cities and more than 2 million cars in 33 cities. The direct losses from traffic accidents amount to tens of billions of dollars annually, and traffic congestion has become a typical feature in the traffic of major and medium-sized cities.
The traditional urban traffic management model [6] has made it difficult to solve the problem of soaring travel volume caused by the dramatic increase in population. Due to the reverse urbanization process and the over-concentration of urban central business district development, customized Consumer to Business consumer has come into being, such as Ta-Ta Bus, Ruyao Bus, and Sooner Bus. Then these are just the next best thing to alleviate transportation pain points, and users' basic requirements are not being satisfied. What people need more is a macro and comprehensive regulation tool like smart city [7] . Regulating the signals is a simple and cost-effective method that avoids altering the city roads and urban design.
This paper combines emerging artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, and other popular technologies to implement and apply innovative and advanced traffic flow prediction technology to turn ordinary traffic into an intelligent traffic management system. It realizes the visualization and attitude toward clever traffic, improves operation management, increases incident response efficiency, makes travel management more efficient, and reduces commuting time. The system is low cost, easy to build and maintain, and can provide effective traffic direction.
The system includes four modules: intelligent perception, intelligent identification, autonomous traffic guidance, and central control. Among them, the smart sensing module sensor senses the climate, the camera monitors the intersection, and the meeting sets up a large traffic alert screen. Deep learning technology is employed in the intelligent recognition module to recognize targets and license plates. To adapt to the detection of various complex environments (dawn, dusk, night, rain, snow, and fog), the target detection model is modified to enhance the detection effect. Use Deepstream stream analysis SDK to achieve higher performance video analysis application with secure bi-directional communication between edge and cloud. Utilizing target tracking and OpenCV to determine traffic flow, people flow, and vehicle speed, based on the above detection information, extended to get red light running, speeding, retrograde, pressure line, set of license plates, and other extended functions. The autonomous flow guidance module is a consideration of traffic flow, climate, time, road network congestion, period, vehicle type, and other factors for scheduling. For the system stability, the signal light scheduling sets up network exception handling. The central control module consists of a large display screen and a small control screen. The large screen shows real-time traffic feedback and gathers information about pedestrian and vehicle traffic's previous traffic flow. The small screen adopts a permission-controlled back-end management mode, which can remotely control the large screen display and can control the signal lights.
Following testing, it was discovered that the system features an intelligent traffic flow diversion feature, a decent interactive interface, and is simple to operate. The following is a list of this paper's main contributions:
- Designed a smart traffic guidance system that contains four modules: intelligent perception, intelligent identification, autonomous traffic guidance, and central control.
- The proposed signal intelligent guiding algorithm can be used for signal scheduling according to the traffic flow, climate, and environment.
- Proper system interaction, simple to use, and easy to manage and control for traffic managers.

## SECTION II. Proposed Method
The four modules-intelligent sensing, intelligent identification, autonomous inflow, and central control are designed to enhance the intelligent scheduling system and talk to each other using the MQTT [3] protocol. Fig. 1 displays the architecture's overall diagram. A thorough explanation of each module is given below.

### A. Intelligent Identification
STM32 controls the pin level of each traffic light and drives the USART display, DHT11 temperature, and humidity module. ESP8266 plays a bridge role connects to the Internet through its WIFI module, accesses the MQTT platform, then communicates with the back-end, and then communicates with the STM32 through the serial port. The STM32 transmits the parsed sensor data back through the ESP8266 at a frequency, and if it receives the data from the ESP8266, it will also change the traffic light status or the display content according to the instruction. The overall structure is in Fig. 2 .

### B. Intelligent Perception
Yolov5s [4] lightweight target detection model is used. The detection model is the cornerstone of the effectiveness of the signal scheduling algorithm. This study employs the BDD100K dataset for training, which contains a variety of complicated situations, to increase the detection effect of the detection model in various environments (dawn, dusk, night, rain, snow, and fog). The dataset is processed into seven classes of labels and then trained to enhance the detection effect of the model in different situations. After we convert the trained model to ONNX [5], which is used as a bridge to further transform into a TensorRT [8] model with specially optimized support from NVIDIA, INT8 quantized models [12] is trained with the calibration dataset. The quantization detection accuracy is maintained while increasing the detection rate.
In this study, tracking is accomplished by combining a tracker with target detection. Future tasks are assured by effective tracking. It is determined to use NvDCF [9] rather than Deepsort [10], IoU [11] after comparing some existing trackers shown in Table 1 .
NvDCF implements visual object tracking based on the online discriminative learning algorithm of correlation filter and uses both data association algorithm and state estimator for multiobject tracking. Compared with Deepsort, IoU, NvDCF can alleviate the ID Switch problem caused by occlusion and is very suitable for scenarios with high traffic flow and susceptibility to occlusion, such as intersections. Table 1 shows the comparison matrix.
In this paper, we rely on the target detection frame to calculate the number of cars, and the calculation formula can be defined as follows:
speed = \frac{\sqrt{(x_1 - x_2)^2 + (y_1 - y_2)^2}}{ppm} \cdot fps \cdot \lambda   (1)
Where (x_1, y_1) and (x_2, y_2) are the coordinates of the center point of the detected detection frame in the previous and the current, respectively. ppm is the width of the vehicle in the picture divided by the actual width of the vehicle, and fps is the number of frames inferred by the detection model in one second, with manually set super parameters.
This paper uses HyperLPR high-performance open source Chinese license plate recognition framework for license plate detection. The framework supports all kinds of license plate detection, with an average recognition time of less than 100ms for 720p images on a single-core Intel 2.2G CPU (MacBook Pro 2015), and an accuracy rate of 95%-97% for mouth scenes, with fast recognition and high accuracy.
Based on the above work, this paper implements the related violation detection tasks: squashed solid line, speeding, red light running, and retrograde. Squashed solid line: this paper uses Gaussian filtering to denoise, Canny operator processing to get the edge map, and Hoff transform to get the detected lane line. The distance between vehicle and lane line was calculated to determine the squashed solid lines and red lights running. Speeding: When speed exceeds a certain threshold. Retrograde: Using the Box coordinates of the target tracking to get the vehicle movement direction. After detecting the violating vehicle, this paper will all transmit the violation and the corresponding license plate number to the back end for warning.

### C. Autonomous Inflow
The single intersection scheduling algorithm can be used in areas where the signals are not too dense. This algorithm integrates the period and proposes a scheduling algorithm for the solution based on the climate information transmitted by the intelligent sensing system, the detected traffic flow, vehicle type, and speed. This intelligent scheduling algorithm dynamically adjusts the time T of the whole cycle and the remaining green light time T_remain of the current intersection according to the detected situation. In this paper, we improve the algorithm according to the possible problems, and solve the problem of excessive traffic flow in one direction, the issue of no vehicle passing during the green light time, and the problem of congestion in the center of the intersection by display programming.
We set the interval \Delta t time to sample the traffic flow detection for each intersection. Since the number of traffic does not change rapidly with time, t can be set to 2 to 4 s. The flow chart of the scheduling algorithm is in Fig. 3 .
T_nr is the green light time assigned to the current intersection by calculation. The formula for T_nr can be defined as follows:
T_km = \frac{N_km + N_(k+2)m}{\sum_{k=1}^4 N_km} \times (T - \Delta t \times m)   (2)
where T_km denotes the mth detection point measurement time in a signal cycle, giving the newly assigned green light time for direction k. where N_km is calculated as follows:
N_km = \sum_{i}^n l_t \times v_i   (3)
n is the number of objects detected by the current detection node m in the k direction. Set the corresponding car speed l and space occupation ratio v of the car based on the type of vehicle, and multiply the coefficients as the object's feature value. The weight value of that direction is the sum of all the feature values.

### D. Central Control
The large screen server uses SpringBoot + Maven architecture, and the display part uses Vue + Element UI. The live stream is based on Websocket and uses RTMP for push and pull streaming. Among the servers, CentOs + Nginx + Nginx-RTMP-module is chosen to do the video service. The live content is transmitted to the server via OBS Studio, after which the video stream is fetched through the front-end video player (video.js). In addition, the front-end chooses Websocket to establish instant communication with the server, and handshakes with the server to establish a TCP channel. There is an option to access an external API (drone camera) for video display.
A supplemental app made to operate the large screen. The WebSocket protocol was used by the backend to communicate. The client interface consists of three parts: login and registration interface, intersection and function selection interface, and function display interface, with user login and registration, corresponding observation intersection selection, intelligent big screen function and signal control, and other functions. Managers can control according to real-time road conditions and realize humanized and flexible control. To ensure system security, the backend management mode of role authority control is used for the consideration of major security of traffic systems.

## SECTION III. Results
A single intersection scheduling demonstration is completed in this paper using Pygame in Python, and signal light simulation scheduling is performed by varying the frequency and rate of vehicles appearing at different intersections. The experiment was set up with vehicles: cars, buses, trucks, rickshaws, and bicycles for a visual demonstration. This paper sets different moving speeds and changes the speed through the intersection, adding start-up acceleration to improve simulation realism.
The effectiveness of the scheduling algorithm can be validated through visualization. Fig. 4 depicts the demonstration process. Compared to the traditional algorithm (same signal time at each intersection), the scheduling algorithm proposed in this paper can effectively adjust the dynamic time based on the number of vehicles at each intersection. When the north-south traffic is less than the east-west traffic, the algorithm automatically reduces the green time of the north-south signal.

## SECTION IV. Conclusion
As urbanization accelerates, traffic in many cities in China is not optimistic, and customized Consumer to Business models are only the next best thing to alleviate the problem. This paper uses machine learning algorithms to implement license plate speed detection, illegal vehicles, and violation detection using sensors to detect the climate. The intelligent signal scheduling algorithm is designed to dynamically regulate the signal according to the vehicle, environment, time and other factors to solve traffic difficulties. The supporting management center is designed to realize data visualization to facilitate the management and review of traffic control personnel. The small screen (mobile terminal) controls the large screen, manually regulates the signal lights, retraces the history, etc. These processes are fully utilized to extend the traffic management system and achieve excellent results.

## ACKNOWLEDGMENT
I am grateful for the guidance and help provided by Brother Wang Long. This work is supported by Student's Platform for Innovation and Entrepreneur-ship Training Program under Grant (No.202010595053. 202010595022)

## References
1. Gary Bradski. The opencv library. Dr. Dobb's Journal: Software Tools for the Professional Programmer, 25 ( 11 ): 120–123, 2000.
2. Shimon Harush, Yair Meidan, and Asaf Shabtai. Deep-stream: Autoencoder-based stream temporal clustering and anomaly detection. Computers & Security, 106 : 102276, 2021.
3. Urs Hunkeler, Hong Linh Truong, and Andy Stanford-Clark. Mqtt-s―a publish/subscribe protocol for wireless sensor networks. In 2008 3rd International Conference on Communication Systems Software and Middleware and Workshops (COMSWARE'08), pages 791–798. IEEE, 2008.
4. Glenn Jocher, Alex Stoken, Jirka Borovec, NanoCode012, Christopher Stan, Liu Changyu, Laughing, Tkianai, Adam Hogan, Lorenzomammana, Yx Nong, Alex Wang, Laurentiu Diaconu, Marc, wanghaoyang0106, ml5ah, Doug, Francisco Ingham, Frederik, Guilhen, Hatovix, Jake Poznanski, Jiacong Fang, Lijun Yu, changyu98, Mingyu Wang, Naman Gupta, Osama Akhtar, Petr Dvoracek, and Prashant Rai. ultralytics/yolov5: v3. 1-Bug Fixes and Performance Improvements, October 2020.
5. Wei-Fen Lin, Der-Yu Tsai, Luba Tang, Cheng-Tao Hsieh, Cheng-Yi Chou, Ping-Hao Chang, and Luis Hsu. Onnc: A compilation framework connecting onnx to proprietary deep learning accelerators. In 2019 IEEE International Conference on Artificial Intelligence Circuits and Systems (AICAS), pages 214–218. IEEE, 2019.
6. Kapileswar Nellore and Gerhard P Hancke. A survey on urban traffic management system using wireless sensor networks. Sensors, 16 ( 2 ): 157, 2016.
7. Lucy Sumi and Virender Ranga. Sensor enabled internet of things for smart cities. In 2016 fourth international conference on parallel, distributed and grid computing (PDGC), pages 295–300. IEEE, 2016.
8. Han Vanholder. Efficient inference with tensorrt. In GPU Technology Conference, volume 1, page 2, 2016.
9. Daniele Vignarca, Jai Prakash, Michele Vignati, and Edoardo Sabbioni. Improved person counting performance using kalman filter based on image detection and tracking. In 2021 AEIT International Conference on Electrical and Electronic Technologies for Automotive (AEIT AUTOMOTIVE), pages 1–6. IEEE, 2021.
10. Nicolai Wojke, Alex Bewley, and Dietrich Paulus. Simple online and realtime tracking with a deep association metric. In 2017 IEEE international conference on image processing (ICIP), pages 3645–3649. IEEE, 2017.
11. Zhaohui Zheng, Ping Wang, Wei Liu, Jinze Li, Rong-guang Ye, and Dongwei Ren. Distance-iou loss: Faster and better learning for bounding box regression. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, volume 34, pages 12993–13000, 2020.
12. Feng Zhu, Ruihao Gong, Fengwei Yu, Xianglong Liu, Yanfei Wang, Zhelong Li, Xiuqi Yang, and Junjie Yan. Towards unified int8 training for convolutional neural network. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 1969–1979, 2020.